In my professional career, I thank Jehovah's Witnesses.
They made a traditional doctor like myself
consider the possibility and importance of reducing the use of blood.
I believe that you, know you as people,
but as a clinical setup,
have greatly changed my attitude
and thereby, also that of my collaborators.
I have a lengthy clinical experience of over 30 years.
And in my clinical experience, I have never had any such cases.
Neither in my experience as a medical examiner,
nor have my colleagues ever had them.
I don't think it is correct to say that someone will die
because they didn't accept blood.
It's an exceedingly complex situation
and should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Blood, anyway, has risks,
so even a transfusion carries a high level of risk to the patient.
We have to evaluate risks versus benefits.
As a doctor, I believe that a patient who comes well prepared
for a surgical operation or to give birth has a minimal risk.
We can't exclude it, but then again,
we can't exclude a death following a transfusion.